## TIID - A User-Friendly GUI Tool for Identifying Islands of Defense in Prokaryotic Genomes
<p align="justify">The red queen hypothesis portrays the evolutionary race between organisms to establish. Bacteria and phages are ubiquitous microorganisms constantly coevolving over billions of years. The hard evolutionary competition between bacteria and phages resulted in a strong evolutionary pressure that has led bacteria to develop a wide repertoire of anti-phage defense mechanism to prevent infection, called the prokaryotic immune system. It is currently known that a key feature of these anti-phage systems is that their genes are clustered in genomic islands known as defense islands. In-depth analysis of these regions helps to understand the distribution of immune genes in an organism and discover potential new defense systems. Here we present TIID, a user-friendly and JAVA GUI tool developed to identify defense island and its genes in prokaryotic genomes in an easy and fast way. The graphical interface of TIID, built using JAVA, offers optimal usability to users. Additionally, it features a database that oversees processing stages, ensuring seamless resumption in case of unexpected events. The validation process used two datasets: the first comprising 100 E. coli organisms, and the second consisting of 25 class-wide bacterial genomes. The results strongly support TIIDs efficiency on identifying defense islands and its associated genes across both genomes datasets, suggesting its wide applicability in both molecular and ecological studies in microbiology and new defense systems discovery.</p>
